my name is xavier Lugo and
engineers are working developer
relations and like to welcome
year-to-date position 409 the new h I to
debug last year if you remember
correctly not in the same room but you
know to be more self we introduce a chai
view which is a new drawing composited
model for Latinos during controls on Mac
OS then we got a lot of feedback from
you guys and we're very happy to present
you what we've been doing in the last
year you have to understand that if
you're doing carbon development and if
your CC posters developed on a platform
these technology is very very important
for you and at one point over of your
development cycle you have to look at
what we're doing which have you and what
we're doing the involute h-hi toolbox
because this is really the future of C
and C++ development on Mac OS 10 we have
a station full of new things and very
cool demos and in order to talk about
that we're going to go directly into the
content i'd like to introduce guys
return who is known as well as be who's
going to be actually talking about the
brand new atractivo that we have for you
guys yep thank you thank you save you
get him back come on Xavier so you have
to forgive me a little bit i've been
told that there's a krispy kreme donut
waiting for me back there after i finish
the presentation so i might go a little
quickly here i really really like
doughnut oh can we get the front
monitors on so i can see the slides
without turning around if not I'll just
stand back here and I can see the screen
so I'm sure some of you are sitting here
wondering nu H I tool box why'd they
call the session the new h I toolbox I
mean it's not like the control manager
api's have changed fundamentally since
1984 you can still call many manager
routines the same way you've always been
been able to call them and the contents
of mac windows H is almost the same as
it has been you know back in nineteen
eighty-four so why are we calling the
session the new h I toolbox well the
reason is that over the past couple
years we've completely rewritten the
foundations of H I toolbox in Jaguar we
introduce a chai object which is our
standard tool box object model and every
object model of course
made some kind of messaging model and
carbon events is that messaging model
and carbon events has been around even
longer than H I object and of course if
you've got objects you need base
handlers and base functionality and of
course we have that in the form of the
standard window handler and the base
handlers for controls and applications
and menus and things like that so with
this foundation in place what we were
able to do is completely rewrite the
control manager so that the control
system is now a chive you and HIV us are
now a full-featured view system that
supports a one-pass efficient composited
drawing model so in short the reason we
call this the new hol box is because
it's built on a completely modern
foundation now there's a famous saying
to stand still is to regress and what
this means to us on the tool box is it
the world moves kind of fast around it
there's a lot of other things going on
and if we don't at least keep up and if
not move faster than the rest of
everybody we're falling behind and so
that's actually the reason why we
rewrote the foundations of a tie toolbox
now that we have this modern foundation
in place we can innovate much more
quickly than we were able to before and
that's fine for us you know let's have
put new features out there but you might
be wondering you know why do we care an
application that was written back in
nineteen eighty-four that underwent the
powerpc transition and then ported to
carbon still runs about the same on mac
OS 10 as it did in nineteen eighty-four
sure it's got a new user interface and
stuff but your code can just work the
same if you wanted to so what does it
really matter we have a new a check tool
box well the reason is that the new
foundation forms the basis of all of our
new functionality from here on out we
have things like the toolbar which were
introduced in Jaguar and you can't
really use the toolbar unless you
understand how H I objects and HIV works
and in fact you can't even customize the
toolbar unless you know how to make a
custom HIV you similarly if you want to
put sheets in your application to be you
know truly aqua compliant you need to
understand how carbon events work so you
really need to understand how this
foundation works and you need to start
adopting this as soon as you can so you
can bring your applications forward
another real benefit of this new
foundation is it offers much much better
performance compositing view systems are
an awful lot faster more efficient and
even more predictable than the
old-school sorts of view system
on Mac OS but the best point is that
sticking with a chai toolbox is a very
easy easy iterative adoption path that
allows you to keep using the same often
cross platform C and C plus Co that
you're already used to so in short the
new age I toolbox is what allows you to
take your applications to the next level
on Mac OS 10 so with this new foundation
in place we actually did tons more stuff
for Panther nhi toolbox than we were
able to for Jaguar for previous system
releases and I'm going to talk about an
awful lot of stuff so the real reason
I'm going to talk fast is I got to get
all this stuff fit in an into an hour
wouldn't surprise me if we go a little
bit over but before I start going into
the new features I want to talk about
something else when we were implementing
Panther one of our mantras was
performance we really had to look hard
at ways we could make the toolbox faster
performance as a main goal of Panther
you know has talked about in other
sessions so we took a good hard look at
a number of different facets of the
toolbox and and did some intelligent
things to make it as fast and then
perform as efficiently as it possibly
could for instance you know we send a
lot of carbon events on the system but
if you sample your application you're
not going to see a lot of time spent in
carbon event routines right the bulk of
the time is spent in your app but still
we know the number of carbon events were
sending out we know that over the course
of a run of an application there's going
to be thousands and thousands of carbon
events getting sent to various objects
all over your application so we need to
make sure carbon emitter is lightweight
as possible so we rethought some of the
algorithms rethought some of the data
structures and we put some speed boost
in there the best of which is that event
event construction is now twice as fast
on Panther as it was on Jaguar now we
took a similar look at HIV you in the
compositing view system we found some
ways we could do in validation of views
a little bit better we found ways of
speeding other things up like doing our
vision calculations in a deferred manner
and things like that and the net result
is that now live resize for a fairly
typical compositing window that you
probably has a toolbar and a couple
complex views that's now about thirty to
forty percent faster on Panther than it
was on Jaguar and it doesn't just affect
compositing windows see even though your
windows may not yet be compositing we
still draw the wind
frame and the title bar wages and all
that with compositing so these
performance improvements we did just at
the compositing path even helps your non
compositing windows now it's hard to say
exactly how much it helps out non
compositing windows because it depends
greatly on what exactly you draw and how
you draw on those windows but with our
test apps we're seeing up to about a ten
percent performance improvement in
library size during for non capacity
windows and of course these same changes
speed up just about anything having to
do with a chive use any API you would
call that might invalidate of you is now
a little bit faster as a result and of
course it was mentioned in other
sessions but we need to make text
absolutely fast on Mac OS gets most of
your interfaces text so we spent some
time in there we made our theme text
layers thin as possible and set it
directly on top of Atsui put some
smarter caching even smarter than we had
in Jaguar in place and now theme text
drawing is now about twice as fast on
Panther as it was on Jaguar we looked at
the menu manager you see a lot of
applications enable and disable items
you know in which is in response to
every key press and whatnot and sure
that's not an ideal solution there may
be better ways to enable and disable
your items but we still wanted to make
that experience faster for the user so
we tweaked some menu Mannion's manager
algorithms and now you know typical menu
item manipulation is about thirty to
forty percent faster on Panther as it
was on Jaguar and of course we've had a
lot of people feedback about data
browser and some of the complaints is
that it's slow in a few areas so we
concentrated on certain algorithms that
people were complaining about and we
made data browser item addition I think
it was about thirty percent faster on
Panther and data browser item removal
and selection ten times faster on
Panther than it was on Jaguar
well I know you're not here to listen to
me Pat myself on the back or anything so
let's just jump into the features and
I'd like to start off with a chai text
view we've got mentioned in other
sessions but a chai text view is a very
full-featured compositing text editing
view based around em LTE the multi multi
lingual text engine it's compositing
mode only so this is another reason why
you need to start switching your windows
over to compositing mode so you can add
optical feature like this the reason why
we based it on em LTE is because M LTE
already had a lot of functionality it
already supports mixed style runs full
unicode support so it supports all the
language that oculus 10 supports its
kind of advanced typographic features
and things like that and it already
integrates with certain standard systems
on the on the system like the Edit and
services menu and right now we're
working on support for the font panel
it's not there in the WWDC seed but it
will be there by the time we ship
Panther GM so M LTE already has this
really rich API you know can already do
things like insert text into it
associate an ml to eat instance with a
file set up style you know do complex
manipulations and whatnot so that
allowed us to make the H I text view API
very very small there's basically two
api's in the H I text view API the first
allows you to create a text view the
second allows you to get the M LTE
objects out of that text view so you can
do manipulations on it so the intended
design Mar the intended usage model is
you create your view you get out the MLP
object and you know you call em LTE
api's on it but the main thing you need
to realize is that some M LTE api's do
not work with these M LTE objects that
are bound to a view and the reason for
that is because the MLT api is so huge
and it predates a chive you actually
that it does some things that don't make
sense in the world of HIV for instance
there's an M LTE API which allows you to
change the bounds of an M LTE object
well we'd much prefer you use the HIV
you api's to change the bound of bounds
of a given view so we actually disabled
the MLT EAP is that do those things
just for these m LTE objects that are
bound to HIV so as you're perusing the
ml 2 e api's and you see something
you'll make sure there's not an HIV you
attend equivalent HIV you APR instead
make sure to call that a chive you
instead HIV API instead now another way
that we leverage existing technology to
make our text view a lot quicker or to
implement our text feel a lot quicker I
would through the use of H I scrollview
the scrollview was something we
implemented in Jaguar it's an H I've you
that can manage the scrolling for any
arbitrary scrollable canvas it could be
a picture who knows what it could be a
list it could be text and it already
does a whole bunch of work for us it
manages the scrollbars it'll hide and
show the scrollbars appropriately
according to the Aqua human interface
guidelines you know it'll it'll keep the
canvas size at the right amount and all
that and it's got a carbon in that
protocol that communicates with the
canvas itself so we built the h i text
for you to understand that protocol and
to communicate via that protocol with
the scrollview so that all you need to
do is you take a textview embedded in
the scroll view and now you've got a
scrollable text field so here's a very
quick example of a chai text view
creation pretty much exactly what you
would expect you create a text view by
calling a chai text we create it's an
HIV you creation API like the ones we
introduced in Jaguar so it'll look real
familiar to you you can pass a frame to
it in this particular example I did not
need to pass a criminal get to that in a
second you support some option bits
right now there are no option bits that
are specific to the H I TechSoup and
gives us future expandability but more
importantly is the fact you can pass em
LTE option bits into our creation
function that's the TX and frame options
parameter so this TX and frame options
parameter allows you to configure the ml
2 e object with certain creation data
turn on certain behaviors and whatnot
these are all in the normal ms eat em
LTE headers but in this particular
example we didn't evening options and
after you call this routine of course
you get back your text view the next
thing you need to do is make it visible
because by default and HIV was created
invisibly and then the next step is we
just take our text you and embed it in
the scrolls view that we've already
created and then our text
just working the more likely than not
you're going to actually need to
manipulate your text view in some way
via M LTE so here's a very brief example
of how to do that we've already got our
text be created so we call a chai text
view get txn object to extract the M LTE
object from it and let's say we want to
associate that M LTE object with a file
so it will display the contents of the
file and support revert functionality
and things like that so we build a URL
for that file using you know the normal
API and then we call the techs tension
routine to associate that file with the
texts mention object or sorry with the M
LTE object and that's it very very
straightforward now of course you can
build it in code if you want but better
yet you can go into IB and build it
there because the IB the interface
builder in Panther now supports a bunch
of the new HIV use they implemented the
ones we introduced in Jaguar and even
for a moment is most of the ones we've
introduced and Panther and we're
continuing to work with them to make the
carbon experience in interface builder a
lot richer so this is a good way to go
as well so another new view that was
talked about at the earlier sessions is
a chai search field search fields are a
big part of the Aqua user interface on
Panther they're really convenient for
the users and offer a lot of
functionality and our H I search field
supports all the standard behaviors you
know it's editable text field it's got
the rounded frame which indicates that
it's the search field we've got an
optional cancel button it's got an
optional popup menu completely
customizable menu and it has an optional
descriptive label which is the little
great out text you can see that's in the
text field right now it kind of
indicates what you're going to be
searching so here's a very quick example
of how you might create one I'm going to
assume you've already created a menu ref
in fact I'm going to assume you already
know how to handle carbon events on the
menu rep because this is something
you've been able to do for the past
couple years it's very straightforward
you build up a menu you put H I commands
in it you put the gay event command
process handler on the menu and then you
can react to commands as they get sent
out so we'll assume that's already been
done the next step is to just create our
search field give it its bounding
rectangle you can set up the attributes
right now the only attribute is whether
or not you want to cancel button in this
case we do want the cancel button and
you had it your menu and you give it the
descriptive text you want
blade and receive back the search field
now we also offer API so that you can
set the attribute and the menu and the
descriptive text on the fly later if you
need to now what you've set it up you're
going to want to handle events for two
things you want to react to clicks on
the cancel widget of course you're going
to want to react to the text as the user
types it and hits return so you can
actually do the search to carbon events
you need to handle to deal with those
two things the first is k event text
accepted and the second is k event
search field canceled clicked the
install a handler the way i'm sure you
guys already know how to install and the
handler might look something like this
if you receive the text accepted event
you get your search field you ask for
the text out of the search field you do
your search you update your interface
the way you would you would normally do
that and if the cancel buttons click you
just undo that search you remove
whatever filtering you did and restore
your list to its normal to its normal
state so the next few I want to talk
about is the segment view or as it was
called in other sessions I think that
switcher thingy but we prefer the
segment view
so I'm sure everybody's used the segment
view in the finder right it's a view
switcher control it's like a group of
radio buttons now you can choose between
icon list and column view and it's there
each of those choices are mutually
exclusive so of course our segment ISA
ports that but some other uses of a
segment view have a more momentary
behavior best example are the back and
forward buttons that you see in Safari
and the back and forward buttons you see
in the new open and save panel that's
essentially a segment view just got two
segments but each of those two segments
is a push button that does back and
forward functionality so of course the
segment view supports that segment view
also supports sticky behavior you can
think of that as a checkbox right you
click it it stays pressed until you
click it again at which point it pops
back up now the cool thing is that every
segment in a segment view is
configurable you can set the number of
segments and you can set each one up
differently so you could have for
instance think of like a DVD player
control you could have a play/pause
record fast forward reverse each of
those with a different type of button
behavior and of course you can customize
each of the button contents differently
as well we support icon services icon
refs cg image reps which is sort of the
preferred format and text of course for
those applications that need text-based
segment is 0 the last point is that
unfortunately we did not get the segment
view API is publicized in time for the
WTC build but we are currently actually
using the implementation inside the new
nav services so it is there it does
exist it is it's fully functional it's
just the API didn't look quite the way
we wanted to for the seed so we pulled
it back but the API will definitely be
in place by the time Panther ships we've
got a lot of feedback about data browser
over the years this actually it had
quite a long life span it's been around
since before Mac OS 10 because it
shipped in carbon lib and so we wanted
to implement some of the feature
requests you've asked for now in Jaguar
our big push was for HIV you you know we
wanted everybody to get out there and
use a chive you and it's this really
exciting cool functionality so I'm sure
everybody raced out tried it and then
hit a brick wall and went oh data
browser doesn't support it I guess I
can't use it I guess I can't use
compositing mode and yeah that's true it
is unfortunate if that's one of the
things we really really wanted to fix
Panther so I'm happy to say that now it
works in compositing mode it's pretty
darn cool and compositing mode it's
actually a lot faster because because of
the way compositing modes and validation
system works I have to redraw a lot less
than data browser when things happen to
it then I had to a non compositing mode
in fact this normal data browser API
usage got a little bit faster because
there were some data browser api's that
would immediately redraw and so if he
did sort of a multi-state change on the
data browser you might get three or four
redraws whereas now in compositing mode
those four state changes will only be
accompanied by one redraw but data
browser is a really huge API right I got
it working in my test tools we got it
working enough for the new nav services
and find her in a few places but I know
we didn't quite cover all the bases so I
need your feedback so those of you who
hit the brick wall for adopting
compositing in Jaguar please go try it
out don't go let us know if you see any
problems in compositing mode with you
know various data types and whatnot I'd
like to have this thing rock solid for
panther but I need your help to do it so
write up any bugs you see so the other
thing we add is for one thing we added
for Jaguar actually was type selection
in column view and we can actually do
type selection for free in column view
because there's only one column that
sort of focused at a time if you will
enlist view however if you've got
multiple columns the data browser
doesn't know which column to apply the
type selecting to write in finder it
would need to be the name column but you
know we could make that guess we can
find the first column that does text but
that's you know a little fishy it might
not work for every application so what
we decided to do was make it an adoption
passing which actually gives us a
benefit in a second but I'll talk about
when you set up your call on a tray list
view you can specify a new property this
K data browser list view type select
column property which is in control
definition CH associate that with one of
your columns and that's the column will
apply type selection to now the benefit
we got actually for making this an
adoption path thing is it prevented us
from breaking your existing applications
we know there are some applications out
there that filter the incoming text
before it hits the data browser and you
can filter it at sort of the weight next
event level
up until now data browser wasn't
particularly compartment savvy and so
you know you can get away with taking an
event out of weight next event filtering
it and then calling data browser with
only those key presses you wanted to
give the data browser well when type
selections turned on in order to do
proper Unicode matching with the
contents of the types of left column we
need to handle our text input via the K
event text input carbon event so that is
a difference when you turn on type
select text input will be grabbed by
data browser in a different way so if
you need to do filtering make sure you
filter using the K event text input
carbon events or some other similar
mechanism in fact there are some new
events put out by the tech services
manager that make text filtering in
general a lot easier take a look in
carbon events H for that kind of stuff
so the appearance manager was introduced
in Mac OS 8 i'm sure most of you are
familiar with it i'm sure some of you
have even used it and it worked great on
mac OS 8 was really fast but on mac OS
10 it didn't perform particularly well
and the reason for that is that the
appearance manager was entirely
quick-draw base it assumed it was
drawing into the current port that's
basically the main quick draw basis that
it had now Mac OS 10 is very coarse
paste we want to use core graphics all
over the place and in fact the internals
of the appearance manager on Mac OS 10
draw in court so we had this weird
sandwich effect going on in the
appearance manager where okay somebody
would call the appearance manager they
would have set up their port properly
but before we call our internal stuff we
needed to convert the port information
to cg contacts and make sure to
synchronize the clip of the CG context
with the quick-draw clip and that's
terrifically expensive now sometimes
after we were done doing our drawing we
needed to call your code back to do
label drawing and stuff like that and
that is yet another sort of mode switch
where we had to shore up the data
structures and make sure everything was
right and quick draw world to match the
way we set it up in the core graphics
world so you had the sandwich of quick
draw core graphics in the middle and
quick draw on the other side and that
just slowed everything down so what we
did is we took just that center portion
just that courts portion and we exported
it as
I seen drawing primitives now of course
this is going to give you massive
performance increases in general we see
about a two-time speed boost for an HIV
may pee I on Panther compared to the
equivalent appearance API on Jaguar so
if you can adopt this stuff
conditionally in your code for Panther
you're going to see really big speed
benefits for those of you who are using
appearance manager now the best thing is
that these AP of the HIV api's will look
really really familiar it's virtually an
identical usage model so should be
extraordinarily easy to adopt and the
number one request for the appearance
manager is give us a way to draw posting
push buttons please so you can do that
to the HIV api's now now another reason
H I theme is so important is because
this is the API set that will allow you
to draw all the new aqua widgets right
you need to use H I theme if you want to
draw that new tab look and the segment
views and things like that so you need
to get familiar with this and understand
how to use it if you need your own
drawing primitives and lastly the HIC
API is actually lay the foundation for
the toolbox and its ability to print
what it doesn't it doesn't print quite
yet but this lays enough groundwork so
that we can actually print whereas the
appearance manager API simply cannot
print by virtue of the way we have the
manual manufacture a context to match
the quick report so like I said it's a
very very familiar usage model but there
are some differences first obviously is
that the HIV may pis are completely
court savvy so no longer will you be
able to assume oh I can set up the
current court with a background color
and the appearance manager is going to
raise to it a race to it now you have to
do your race beforehand if that's
something you need to do and then call
the H I theme API and in fact the HIC
may pee I requires that you pass in a
core graphics context so you manufacture
one of these core graphics context and
you can call multiple thi theme api's as
you need to the second major difference
is the fact that the H I theme api's use
H I point and H I rectangle parameters
and there's two reasons for this the
first is that since H I theme is
entirely core graphics based and since
core graphics has a floating point based
coordinate system
quickdraw coordinate field quick-draw
coordinates which we're not floating
point don't really work well in the
context of CG right then did they don't
allow maximum flexibility and so that
made it natural to use a chai point in H
Iraq the second reason is that the HIPAA
p is were literally designed so that we
could implement our system HIV use like
the push button and whatnot and since
they are a chive use they also use a
chai point H I rectangle parameters so
it was just a perfectly natural fit now
you guys are all used to drawing with
the top left-hand origin I think that's
more comfortable I'm sure all of you do
too so of course the HIC maybe I support
that model but if you're doing more PDF
compatible compatible drawing or if
you're trying to do something primitive
drawing from a cocoa application HIC and
supports the bottom left origin as well
so you can use it from just about
anywhere so we introduced HIV you and
Jaguar and it has a lot of cooling
functionality but we wanted to add
something really key to it in Panther
and so we've got something that's kind
of exciting and it's called a chai view
layout but rather than explain it I want
to give you a brief demo because I think
that'll do a better job showing you what
it's all about so if we could go to the
demo machine yeah
I'm being told I need to talk faster
something tells me that's not the case
okay so this is rebounder this is our
test tool for the HIV layout stuff but
it's also we're also going to sort of
polish it up and put it out a sample
code after the show but it needs a
little bit of work I mean for one we're
stretching a push button well beyond the
bounds of good taste anyway so this is
basically just a normal window with a
push button in it you can click and
track on it but we put some carbon event
handlers on the push button so that we
can put it in this sort of edit mode
right you can see these little handles
get associated with it and you know i
can rearrange the push button we've
showed demos like this before but that's
not the point of this application the
point of this application is it lets us
test out all of the HIV you layout stuff
now layouts simply speaking are just a
way to make a view resize or move when a
window resizes you can think of it that
way so for instance I've got this view a
I can set up a binding which is the
first type of a layout that we support
and I can associate that me with the
right hand side of the window and when I
grow the window view stays in place just
like you'd expect and you know you're
not limited to just want to edge of
course I can bind it to the bottom of
the window you know let's say it's like
an ok button you know and it's going to
stay in the right place it's all
automatic I just set up some data
structures call an API and the toolbox
we'll take care of the rest now another
cool thing is that you can do sort of
arbitrary relationships I've associated
this view a with its parent the window
but you're not limited to just parent
relationships I can create another view
of you be let's move it down here next
to view a because I like it there to
make it a little bit smaller so I'm at
least somewhat close to the Aqua human
interface guidelines and I'm going to
bind that view I'm going to bind it's
right edge to the left edge of you a and
now when I resize the window you get
this sort of cascade of automatic risa
our automatic repositioning now of
course i can find view be to view a top
as well you know and so now you've got a
really easy way to keep your ok and
cancel buttons down on the bottom of the
window
[Applause]
okay so but bindings are just one of the
layouts we support one of the types of
relationships we support another thing
we support is positioning and you can
think of positioning sort of as
alignment and it's an alternative way to
do something we've already done in this
demo so I'm going to go ahead and
position a horizontally such that it is
now right aligned with the window so it
immediately snaps over there and it's
going to stay over there just like you'd
expect but positionings also support
offsets so I think the Aqua human
interface guidelines say that the right
offset from the edge of the window is 13
pixels so let me apply an offset to the
positioning I've set up and it'll say 13
pixels from the edge of the window of
course I can do the same thing to the
bottom but before I do that when we
actually turn off the binding do the
same thing position that 13 pixels up
from the bottom of the window and a is
going to stay in the right place just
the way we want and B is still moving as
well because it still bounds a Age
movement but one other cool aspect is
that the relationships are one way so I
can actually move be someplace else and
it'll still maintain these relative
offset from a so it's kind of powerful
in that way you can move your views
around and change the layouts and things
still behave the way you'd expect okay
so another cool thing you can do with
positionings is centering let me clear
the offsets and I can Center a so a is
going to stay in the center of course be
still bound to it he's going to stay
right where we wanted to be and if I
clear the centering I can show you the
third type of layout we support and
that's scaling I can say all right let's
let's say for some strange reason I
always want view a to be fifty percent
of the width of the window I can set
that up and let's say for some of the
strange reason I want it to be
twenty-five percent the height of the
window that works as well so now
whenever the windows height changes and
with changes a size changes along with
it now probably the coolest part about
layout is you can mix and match them
income
item so I'm going to leave aids bindings
all set up so that he's staying
proportion of the window size but now
i'm also going to say all right center
and two and both of those bindings are
respected so this is really really
powerful we switch the new navigation
services over to using this stuff got
rid of a ton of code in nav and and it
not only live resizes faster but it just
makes the code so much easier to
maintain so if we can go back to the
slides now that'd be great so obviously
layouts are cool but there's some other
technical reasons why you might want to
use these it's a very rich descriptive
language for associating views together
for one you know you can do peer
relationships like I showed a to be you
can do parent relationships a to the
window but you can even do strange
relative relationships you could do a to
its second cousin if you wanted to we
took advantage of this and navigation
services as well and it made some of the
relay out of the dialogue that we needed
to do to support you know various
optional pop-ups and whatnot made that
super simple and the other main benefit
is that if you let us do the layout for
you not only do you have less code you
need to maintain but we can make sure
that our layout code is as efficient as
possible so you don't have to spend time
optimizing it and we can also make sure
we do it at the most optimal time so
that we invalidate as little as possible
and causes a little of a redraw as
possible this without all I'm going to
talk about in terms of HIV layouts but
sessions for 25 is going to go into
quite a bit more detail so go check that
one out
so the Aqua human interface guidelines
gets sort of the the desired look for
simple about boxes and yeah it's really
simple but we figured well if we can do
that for you why not so we added the H I
about box API to the toolbox for Panther
to do simple about boxes and of course
it's going to support everything you're
looking for in one of these simple about
boxes it gives you the right look it's
you know it's going to display your
applications name and version and
copyright information and it does that
by looking at your applications bundle
which probably already has that
information so we'll just fetch it from
there and display it appropriately but
if you want to customize it there's two
different ways you can customize it you
can either give us a CF dictionary full
of strings with well-known keys and say
you know please use this string for the
name please use this string for the
version and whatnot and that might
actually be useful for plugins that want
to display in about box right you
wouldn't want the plug-in to displaying
about bucks at points at the apps bundle
so you know you supply your own strings
alternatively for supplying a dictionary
you can point the H I about box API at a
strings file and we'll pull the strings
out of there so it makes it easier to
localize and whatnot now if you use run
application event loop to drive your
event loop the about box will display
automatically whenever the default
application object receives the H I
command about command so all you need to
do to get one of these wired into your
app is just associate that command ID
with your about menu item will put it up
automatically but if you need to display
it manually like in the case of a
plug-in graph or for a white next event
based application you can call the H I
about box command directly if you need
to now the about box is a moat modeless
window in the document layer of your
application and so you know the user is
going to expect to click between it so
you need to be prepared to deal with
that we need to be sort of prepared for
this other window when though you may
not have created to be in your document
list and the other thing users going to
need to be able to do is close it well
the about box already handles a bunch of
carbon events on itself it's a standard
handler base so it's going to
automatically close if the user clicks
on the closed box but the users of
course going to want to close it by
choosing the appropriate commands from
the file menu and the easiest way to do
that is to put the
eh I command clothes command ID in your
close window command in your file menu
that I fleet command enough I think so
anyway you get the point toolbar was
another technology we added in Jaguar
and family need to add a few things to
that as well the toolbar is set up such
that it can automatically save its
configuration to your preferences and
that's really powerful it means you have
to write less code and the user gets the
desired experience but there was a small
hole in that plan having to do with
custom toolbar items there are some
custom toolbar items you may have added
to your toolbar and those items may have
had their own internal state and there
may be times when that internal state
changes without the user doing something
explicit and if that happened there was
no way for your toolbar items to
communicate back to the toolbar and say
hey I'm dirty now you need to save me at
the next possible chance so it was
possible that our automatic saving of
configuration data would kind of would
lose some configuration every now and
again so we added an API to deal with
that which is a chai toolbar item config
data changed so anytime your internal
state changes in a custom item just call
this the toolbar will automatically save
your configuration a lot of people that
use toolbars build them up
programmatically not everybody can use
our sort of automatic regeneration from
prep technique but what we found in fact
finder was one of those clients they
built it up manually from their own
preferences store and what we found is
it's actually quite slow because the
previous AP is only allowed you to
programmatically add toolbar items to a
toolbar one at a time and every time you
add a toolbar item to a toolbar there's
a bunch of carbon events that gets sent
out so that all the toolbar views in the
various windows that use that tool bar
no to update and then each of those
toolbar views is oh I've got a new view
of me I think I need to relay stuff out
you know ship stuff around that's a lot
of work for every single tool bar item
you multiply that times n items and
things start slowing down a lot so we
added the H I toolbar set items with
identifies API to allow you to add a
whole batch of toolbar items at once to
a tool bar toolbar so if you are doing
this custom tool our creation
programmatically make sure to
conditionally use this API on Panther
and later because it's going to speed up
your window creation
possibly dramatically depending on how
many toolbar items are in it so I'm
running out of good segue so I'm just
going to say let's talk about the carbon
event manager we added a few API the
first is kind of an edge case usage
thing a chai mau maus tracking get
parameters is an API that allows you to
ask us how we do our sticky menu
tracking in sort of an abstract way
there's some applications out there that
want to replicate our sticky menu
tracking you know perhaps you're doing
something men you like or you know
you're doing your own custom and your
implementation something and you need to
behave the same this API allows you to
make sure you're behaving the same with
respect to all the things the users
configured on the system and all of that
user's preferences the next API we added
is copy event add in the carbon event
manager we we transform events as they
cascade through the system right a ROM
ass down becomes a window content click
the window content click might spawn a
que event control click the control
click will spawn a control track and so
on and so on and so on and our model
generally dictates that an event on from
another event should have pretty much
all the same parameters as the event
that spawned it and if you're trying to
replicate that in your own code or if
you're trying to do some trigger some
functionality and the standard window
handlers and want to make sure you're
passing the right kind of event to the
standard window handler the copy event
as function you might find useful it
allows you to take any given event of a
certain class and kind and create
another event of a different class in
kind while still maintaining all the
same parameters that the original event
had now another API we added fields all
fills a hole and fixes of performance
bug at the same time you know we're
pushing everybody to adopt carbon events
as much as possible and we've pretty
much got all the bases covered but we
found out that some people still need to
use a vent avail and still down in their
applications for various reasons we just
didn't have a sort of carbon event savvy
version of those and that's fine I mean
generally those two api's give you the
information you need but the real
problem was that there were kind of
performance hogs not only does events
avail tell you whether or not one of
these types of events
but it also calls the run loop which
might fire timers and it may also flush
your windows that are dirty which means
that any given call to event avail may
take a lot more time than you want it to
considering most people use event avail
in a fairly tight loop so what we did is
we implemented a choir first matching
event in queue which is kind of like a
carbon event savvy version of events
avail without all the horrendously
expensive stuff underneath it it just
synchronizes RT with the windows servers
to you and tells you real quick hey yeah
this event is in the queue here it is
have fun does not do any flushing or
anything like that so you need to look
at your code find all places where
you're using a vent avail and spill down
and see if you can switch over to
require first matching event event in q4
Panther additionally so the lake things
an awful lot faster one sort of
important thing to note is that you
can't do a direct one-to-one replacement
from still down to acquire first
matching event in q you're probably
still going to want to check button
because you know that's generally the
semantics used that's generally the
semantics you desire when you still down
so we had some requests from
accessibility developers for a way to
look at other applications events you
know they for whatever reason need to
watch the key key downs and key eps and
mouse ups and mouth bound sort of other
similar events as they happen in other
applications generally for accessibility
purposes so we invented get event
monitor target which returns a carbon
event event target ref that you can put
handlers on for these sort of low-level
user events and it only receives the
low-level ones it's not like we're going
to give you you know k event window
activated events and whatnot it's just a
low-level layer so you can install
handlers for the events you want to see
in other applications and your handler
and your application will see those
events the first important note is that
there are times when the system puts
itself in sort of a secure event mode
the password fields are the best example
right i mean if the users typing in a
password field you don't want other
applications to see those keyboard input
see a keyboard input so we will not send
you those events the other important
thing to realize is that get event
monitor target
and flow the system down in general so
you only want to use it when you need to
and those of you who need to use it
already know who you are this is not
something for general applications out
there and the reason why it slows things
down is because normally as the user
types and clicks and stuff the windows
server just sends events to one process
well we'd get event monitor target if
another application installed handlers
for PFC towns amounts of smell sounds
the windows servers send in two copies
out and not only are there two copies
going out but that means your
application that's in the background
normally being quiet not consuming any
resources is suddenly consuming
resources taking away the user's ability
to use the program in the front so don't
use this unless you need to very
specialized jump right into the menu
managers the first menu manager API we
added these cancel menu tracking does
just what you'd expect cancels the menu
tracking so if you have some kind of
need where you want to programmatically
stop the user from tracking the menus I
don't know maybe you want to put up an
alert or do some other UI you can now do
so programmatically and we also send out
a pair of carbon events whenever the
menu bar is shown in hidden this would
allow you to you know certain certain
pieces of three interface may want to
show or hide appropriately like your
pallets and whatnot whenever the menu
bar showing so you just install handlers
for these pair of events on the
application eventtarget listen to it
modify your interface appropriately
but probably the best feature we add it
to the menu manager was support for HIV
based menus of coming into Panther we'd
already HIV 05 most of the system right
H I've use our control so that was
already done the window manager got
changed so that now window frames and
whatnot are drawn with compositing view
so that was all in place but the big
missing piece was a menu manager and the
menu manager was kind of this weird
environment where you had a quick report
that didn't really point to anything
besides some buffer of bits that the
menu manager managed and online it would
look those to the screen but on 10 you
know we got some other functionality for
free and em deaths were confusing i
guess at best and hard to do and
therefore you didn't see a whole lot of
custom menus well HIV based menus
changes all that makes menu
customization super super easy but you
just need to know a few fundamental
principles and for those of you who
understand HIV already this is going to
be really straightforward so if you've
got a chive use you need compositing
windows and that means every menu is now
drawn in a compositing window just like
you'd expect it has with a normal view
hierarchy of a compositing window you
know there's sort of a structure of you
and there's a content view but there's a
few special nuances of a menu vee system
that you need to be aware of and the
first is the notion of the menu content
view the menu content view lives inside
the windows normal content view and the
menu content views responsibility is to
draw all of the menu items of course we
have a standard menu content view for
our menus and that's what draws I
context command key and whatnot now the
windows normal content view is where the
menu background gets drawn in the case
of our standard one we draw those
aqualine and if you're going to write
one of these custom menus you need to be
able to find out you need to be able to
go back and forth between views and
menus so we've got two api's would
facilitate that functionality a chai
menu get content view says alright given
this menu ref give me the content view
that's going to render it and there's
the inverse as well H I menu view get
menu which is really useful for inside
your custom menu view right you need to
know which menu to render so you can ask
for it with that API
now there's not a lot of custom menus
out there because it's hard but let me
give you a little advice on why you
might want to make a custom menu and
show you a couple examples basically
you'd want to do a custom menu to get
functionality that isn't already
provided by our system menu that is to
get a menu that's not just you know text
command keys good example of that would
be something like the finder in Panther
the file menu now has a menu item that
allows you to change the label of any
given finder item and that's actually
done by a custom HIV that's inserted in
that menu implemented by finder another
example that we've shown up here in the
center is something like we call an XY
menu would be great for like a color
sort of palette like which oh there or
maybe some kind of tool palette and
lastly some menus in our system really
aren't menus right if you look at the
volume menu in the right hand side of
your menu bar it's got a slider in it
it's not much of a menu but it displays
like one so if you want to do some
functionality like that you would do it
with the custom menu making one is very
straightforward if you already
understand the architecture we
introduced a chai object in Jaguar it's
the object model you can derive from
base classes and we provide the base
menu content view class as khi menu view
class ID so you derive from that using
the H object mechanism now that you have
your object class you can associate that
view class with any given menu and then
that one that menu drawers it's going to
display with your it'll actually create
what an instance of your custom view and
then draw with that custom view and
since it's a normal a chive you in a
normal compositing window you can embed
other views inside your custom view as
you need to and after you've done that
you just want to have the five fairly
straightforward carbon events and in
fact they're very familiar of carbon
events that we've already had on the
system for a year or so but the
important thing to understand is the
protocol the menu manager uses with
respect to part codes so the control
manager and a chive you often talk in
terms of part codes right what part of
the control was hit what part of a
control is the mouse over but the menu
manager always talks in terms of menu
items and it wants to know the same
piece of information so the protocol
with respect to many content views is
that part codes correspond directly to
the
menuitem if you receive an HIV event
that's asking for information about part
foot five given information about menu
item five the first event you want to
handle is k event control draw and in
fact you wouldn't necessarily even need
to handle this if all of your drawing
was done by just embedding other H I've
use the responsibility for K event
control draw or for your content view
when it receives this event is to draw
your menu items really straight forward
forward draw however you need to draw
them but as the user is tracking the
mouse over a menu the menu manager wants
one of those items highlighted of course
so you need to draw that highlighted the
way you find out which item is
highlighted is by looking at the focused
part of your menu content view so you
can call a chive you get focus part
that'll tell you the menu items that's
currently highlighted so you draw that
in the inverted manner or whatever is
appropriate for your pesto menu now the
second event you want to handle is k
event control hit test the menu manager
will send this event to your custom menu
whenever it needs to find out which item
is under the mouse so all you need to do
is look at the coordinate in the event
it's a view relative coordinate figure
out which menu item that corresponds to
and pass that back in the carbon event
and similarly the cave and control get
part region carbon event will be sent
whenever the menu manager needs to know
the total area that that menu item
occupies visually in the menu so you
look at the incoming part you build up a
region that represents the bounding
rectangle for that item pass it back in
the event the fourth event is k event
control get optimal bounds the menu
manager will send this to you sort of
early at menu time when it needs to
figure out how big your menu would
ideally be right this is assuming you've
got infinite screen real estate so if
you've got an eight thousand item menu
make sure you return a really big
rectangle but the one thing note is that
your menu maybe size smaller to fit on a
screen just like you'd expect so you
need to be prepared to deal with that
and the way the menu manager does
scrolling most of it is actually handle
automatically for you but the way it
Scrolls you is by offsetting your
content views bounds origin
appropriately so in your draw handler
what you can do is look at your bounds
origin and constrain drawing a pro
really to cover only those items that
are visible on the screen which will
speed up your menu a lot right if you've
got a lot of menu items that aren't
displayed there's no point drawing
though so there's one last carbon event
you need to handle and that's to
facilitate scrolling it's Kevin
scrollable get info and we introduce
that in Jaguar as part of the H I
scrollview carbon event protocol what
we're leveraging it here there's about I
think four or five pieces of data that
you need to provide in this event to the
menu manager take a look in carbon
events that H actually now I think that
one is an HIV dot H to see what those
parameters are but they describe things
like how much of you is visible how much
total of you there is how much you want
to have scrolled every time the you know
the user or it's sort of in every scroll
increment right that kind of information
it's really straightforward and the rest
of the functionality is all going to be
taken care of for you by the base menu
handling right so if you just implement
those five carbon events you're going to
have a custom menu up and running but
there's a few more events you might want
to handle for various other regions if
you need to do further customization or
change sort of the default behaviors so
the first of those is k event menu
create frame view this event is sent to
your menu content view when it needs
when the menu manager wants to know what
the window frame you should look like
this is the thing that actually draws
the menu background by default the base
handler will create a frame view that
will draw the normal aqualine background
but if you want a custom background
picture or something you can handle this
event and create your own view and do
whatever drawing you need to the second
event is k event menu get frame bounds
this event is sent to the content view
to determine where that content where
the total menu area should be displayed
globally on screen you know generally
they're going to pop down from the menu
bar but you might have a pop-up button
or something and you know it needs to
position appropriately relative to the
item that the caller called pop-up menu
select with and so there's a whole bunch
of data that gets passed into the get
frame bounds karbonn event so you can
decide or customize how exactly you want
to taste efficient on screen then
finally there's a key event then you
become scrollable carbon wind with
carbon events is sent to your content
view whenever your content view is a
candidate
bowling and this will happen whenever
your whenever your content view
represents the sort of leaf node menu
right of a series of menus because
that's the one the user can type
selected so you'll receive this event
and you can either block the default
scrolling behavior if you don't want any
scrolling for some reason or you can do
your own scrolling behavior if you've
got really unique need you know maybe
you need to scroll horizontally through
a menu or something who knows and so it
comes with a lot of info you can look at
generally you want to when you receive
this event you're going to want to
install a bunch of event handlers on the
menus window so that you can receive
other input and whatnot and then when
your menu is no longer a candidate for
scrolling we send the key event menu
cease to be scrollable carbon event to
you and that's where you tear down all
the handlers you set up when you became
trouble so that's just sort of one
technique sort of a comprehensive
technique for creating a custom menu but
it's certainly not the only technique
right if you've got a composited window
you can do just about anything with that
thing there's all kinds of carbon lets
you can hook can do to create views and
you can use existing views on the system
and it's all carpet event handlers to
handle user interaction and all that
stuff so there's lots of other
techniques we've got a piece of sample
code out there it went on the website
earlier this week so I suggest you go
check that out it shows I think about
four different custom menus in fact that
will be app I use to take the
screenshots a few slide back with those
custom any so it'll show you how to do
all three of those custom menus plus one
additional one which puts a menu bar
sorry a picture as a menu background
it's really really good sample code
let's jump right into the window manager
the first API we added there is a chai
window change class now this is really
cool because it allows you to sort of
polymorphic ly change a window from say
document a floating and back so you can
do some really interesting you I there
you can sort of promote things to float
or you know change them around a little
bit so that's really need the next API
we added is both sort of a technology
thing and a convenience thing right now
if you need to programmatically flush a
window to the screen the only way to do
that was with a quick draw API and if
we're really moving towards court it
doesn't make sense to keep you guys
using a quick draw API to do the
flushing so now a chai window
wash allows you to do a flush on just a
window rack you can you know completely
ignore the implementation details of the
fact that the support there the other
benefit is that flush time now in the
toolbox is more than just painting the
bits to the screen right we do other
interesting things in the compositing
view system like right at flush time we
look to see which of your views are
dirty and we tell them to repaint right
now and then we can flush that to the
screen and similarly window shadows
often need to get recalculated right at
flush time so this h i went to flush the
api is this one-stop shopping api to
just say hey look this window the way it
needs to be bulleted now with the
evidence of sheets you know more more
applications or adopting them and
probably the number one piece of
feedback we've heard about sheets is
that you've got a document window an
error happens you put up a sheet that
document window is still sort of
modeless with respect to the rest of the
windows in your app and you might get
into a situation where you need to
display another sheet on that same
document window but the Aqua human
interface guidelines say now you
shouldn't do that and unfortunately
there's no really good way to find out
if you've already got a sheet on your
document window so H I window is
document modal target is designed to
solve that problem tell is it easy and
easily in just a one-stop shopping API
for whether or not there's a sheet here
we know we also have a detached sheet
window API which will allow you to
create a sheet display it and then
recycle it for display at a later time
as opposed to just disposing it and then
creating a new sheet later right so this
will buy you a little bit in terms of
efficiency if you're constantly we're
using a particular type of sheet we also
send out a couple new carbon events
having to do with Windows we've got a
you can because this is a carbon event
hook k event app active window changed
gets sent out whenever the app the
active window in your application gets
changed so if you need to maintain state
or update some UI based on whatever the
active window is you can just install a
handler for this event on the
application target and you'll be
notified whenever that happens now the
window manager will automatically take
care of rearranging windows on the
screen whenever the monitor
configuration changes or whenever like
the documents from the bottom over to
the side so the window manager will
already do that and it sends events to
your
application I think they're k event
window constrain events to each window
so each mundo can deal with it itself
but if you need a global way to hook
into that and replace the window
management window managers entire batch
of functionality you can now install a
handler 4k event app available window
bounds changed on the application target
and then completely replace the window
managers functionality if you need to
so we also enrich the existing window
transition API the coolest part now as
you can see is we now support a genie
transition effect so you can Genie
whatever you need to whenever you need
to it's not just for coming in and out
of the dock and it will give you the
standard UI for it so you're going to
match the rest of the system now we also
came up with a new API called transition
window with options it's going to look
very familiar because it's based off the
existing transition window API but from
the options it allows you to customize
it has to do with durations you can make
say a window fade transition as fast or
as slow as you want you can speed up or
slow down the genie effect as you need
to and it also supports asynchronous
transitions so that you can just call
transition with window with options
it'll return immediately and the
transition will happen sort of behind
your back without you having a block so
you can continue processing now of
course if you're using asynchronous
transitions you probably want to know
when the transition is finished so we
have a pair of carbon events to help you
out with that we have a key event window
transition started event it's sent to
the window right when the transition
starts so you can set up any state you
need to maintain and then a cabin window
transition completed carbon event when
the transition is finished
now performance is not all just about
super duper fat code that SuperDuper
fast code helps of course but you know
it's not the end all be all some of it
has to do with perceived performance how
fast is your apps seem and one way we
facilitate that on Panther is through
asynchronous window dragging so
traditionally on Mac OS when you want to
drag a window sorry there's no Michael
attend when you want to drag a window
you click on the title bar the windows
server has to send the click event to
your application your application
catches that event and either you call
drag window or the toolbox calls drag
window for you and then the user starts
mouthing or you know starts moving the
window around and there is a slight lag
there right there's a cross process
message that has to be sent if we can
actually allow window dragging at the
windows server level that process is
going to be we're going to eliminate the
cross process message and the drag is
going to start virtually instantaneously
it's much much faster perceived
performance the secondary benefit is
that if your app is busy you've got the
spinning cursor of death or after doing
some you know intense computation you
can't serve as events very often the
user will still be able to click their
window even if your app is not generally
responsive of course the best part is
that it's really easy to turn on we've
got a new window attribute k window
async drag attribute you can specify
that after we either in create new
window or change window attributes later
if you need to but there's one very very
important caveat because the window
server is handling your window dragging
you are not going to receive a steady
stream of K event window bounds changing
events as the windows dragged around you
will get them occasionally but there
will be sort of like a hiccup effect
you'll get them every now and again sort
of disease or pauses so if you were
relying on K event window bounds
changing to do some sort of custom
window drag gridding you know you want
it to snap to various locations or snap
tool bars together and whatnot it's not
going to work real well with a sink
window dragging so you've got a couple
options there the first is just don't
use async window dragging right you
don't have to use it for all the windows
in your application
if your interface is better served by
that gridding you know keep doing that
gridding don't turn on anything for
those windows that's fine alternatively
we do send out a cabin window drag
completed carbon event whenever a window
drag is finished so one thing you could
do is install a handler for that event
instead of the balance changing event
and then let the user drag the window
all around the screen wherever don't do
the sort of live snapping and then when
the drags finished you'll get the dry
completed event and you can snap the
window to the correct location then
we've got a couple options there the
other real important thing to realize
about a synchronous window dragon is
that if you turn this on you don't want
to call drag window when you finally
receive the mouth now because you will
receive that mouth then in your
application and if you turn on a cig
dragging receive the mouse down and then
call drag window yourself you're going
to get a really weird effect as the
window sort of jumps around between two
different locations so make sure to take
out your pulses Ragueneau similar API so
I've talked about an awful lot of stuff
and that's not even in I mean we have a
couple other sessions for a chai toolbox
where we talk about entirely other
pieces of functionality that we've added
but that shouldn't stop you from going
and implementing some of the stuff now
there's a lot of quick and easy things
you can do you can conditional eyes some
of your code for Panther such that it
uses vhi theme api's instead of the
appearance manager you're going to get a
lot of performance boost from that you
can use the replacement for event avail
and skill down you can start adopting
the new aqua widgets right you start
using that search field start using the
segment view when it's when it's finally
available but even more important than
that is if you haven't started looking
at the new technologies and our
underlying foundational technology you
got to start looking at that now more
and more of our stuff is only going to
work under this new model you need to
start learning about compositing try
turning on the standard window Handler
and some of your windows you know you're
going to run through some issues there
is a little bit of a code Brescia needs
to happen but it's not a very big coat
brush so go turn those things on and
start iterative iteratively making these
improvements to your application so
you'll be completely flexible as we a
sort of throwing technologies out there
for you to use now this is something we
actually did for the new navigation
services for Panther the old map was
completely dialogue based it did all the
event handling
self except for a few edge cases and
therefore now was a really big binary
did a lot of work so as part of the new
UI we actually switched navigation
services over to using the standard
handlers over to using compositing and
you know sure it took us a little bit of
time but the end result was great we
gave much better performance we got to
adopt all the new widgets you know we
got these with segments to you and
whatnot we got to use data browser and
compositing mode but the best thing is
that we got rid of a lot of code out an
app I mean the nav binary even though
navigation services does more now in
Panthers than it did in Jaguar is still
ten percent smaller than it wasn't
Jaguar you know so for your applications
that's going to mean quicker download
times you know let's paging that needs
to happen when your application as
loaded and things like that so you got
to get out there start adopting these
new technologies and move your
applications to the future Mac os10 so
now I would like to bring back up
saviers so you take us through the
roadmap and some QA
[Applause]
alright we have a couple of things that
are very important to understand and
hopefully between make sense for you
guys on what we've been trying to
achieve this year with the station for
carbon developers very important the
data exchange option for carbon
application with brand new services form
to the pit board the new type which is
the UTI the uniform type identifier but
we're going to be talking about critical
go and see that because you have to use
that in danger prepare if you need more
information about HIV you if you have
Kristen controls and you like to take
advantage of co graphics and the new
completed view model that we have please
go to position 4 to 5 carbon will we
took reading details about HIV and how
your application can take advantage of
this technology to very important
stations this year we have something
specific fault amazing performance for
carbon applications where we're going to
be able actually taking you guys to a
bunch of steps from networking file i/o
what you should do with carbon essence
what type of composite you should use
when on what windows we're going to talk
about things like a PRS that maybe you
should start moving out of you know that
you should not be using anymore a very
very good session and we have session 3
07 that's going to be specifically for
carbon development and your Xcode the
new to be released the tools team has
made major effort to actually have the
tools integrates very well with what
carbon developers are doing and with HIV
of course and you so little bit of like
that to interface builder but X collect
some pretty cool built-in support for
the building carbon applications as well
can I had one thing he David what's your
session number 43 there is one station
that is not there with decisions for two
or three very cool station a lot of
people winery like you know are in my
case which is you know we all have
applications for mac OS 9 but are using
power plant and we have all these
different technologies in carbon to use
and were wondering well why should I
start but session is going to be
specifically on how to build a modern C
C++ application on Mac OS theorem so you
can think of it kind of as
fresher course if you need to kind of
get reminded of what the right way to do
things are you know to use run
application event loop instead of wait
next event things like that you know
it'll give you the right pointers toward
using the modern API it's what makes you
a murderer and keep the first
application fee of typical application
on my question what should you use we'd
go through a carbon event a chive you we
have like a bunch of things for that I
encourage you to justice to that station
I got them back sugar should you need
any question you can contact me exhibit
apple com there is always my manager in
case i don't answer and I mean Tahiti or
something like that and jungle and is
also a really good guy if you have aqua
questions jungle entities actually or
user experience technology evangelist
you